The First Night
I think I gained weight.
Push!
There we go...
for a hotel ambiance.
How cheap!
Just joking, Lord.
It's too bright! Like there's a show.
What's up?
Silly!
Aren't I pretty?
Off to ballroom?
Don’t be a killjoy!
Hey.
Les.
Thanks.
For checking my papers
for so many semesters.
Did anyone fail?
Does anyone ever fail in your class?
Are you tired, Les?
Well, you've always been like that.
When you're telling a joke,
it's like you're reciting in class.
When you're angry,
it's like you're doing the opening prayer.
Hey.
Hey, are you sulking?
Because I always ask you to check papers?
Your hand's callused again.
Don't worry.
Your problem and calluses
will be over soon because...
Mr. Bautista says our school
is buying a Scantron machine.
Finally!
It's nothing.
The Scantron?
Silly. Checking papers.
Really? So what's wrong with you?
Wanna take a shit? The toilet's...
You're such a tease.
That’s why you’re hooked on me.
Yeah, 'cause you’re crazy.
Don't I remind you of someone?
Cherry Pie Picache?
Stupid! Adele!
Wait a minute.
Just so you know,
she's way younger...
Why? Do I look old?
Y-Yeah, w-why?
So? Cherry Pie's pretty!
It came straight from your mouth.
That?
That I'm pretty.
Hey!
- Hey!
- What?
Hey, Les, let's go home later.
Hey, Les! What's up?
Nice! You finally got a textmate.
No, no. You're wrong.
I was saying,
let's go home later.
Us?
Yeah! We're going home together, right?
Don't we always go home together?
Is there a problem, Les?
Nothing really...
What is it?
It's just...
Ma'am Debs, it's because...
I actually need to go now.
Why? I ordered pizza.
It's Hawaiian. Your favorite.
That's not even enough for you.
Great!
So many high scores.
Marlon Baldomero's the highest again.
He's really the complete package.
Cute and smart.
I'll be going first, Ma'am Debs.
I talked with my Mom.
The other night, Les.
How is she?
She was asking about you.
Anyway, so we talked and...
She said I'm not getting any younger.
Just heavier.
And that I've been taking care of her
for some time now.
She's being so dramatic!
And that...
years have already passed.
Most of my students
have gone abroad, if not married.
Meanwhile...I'm just here.
Still single.
What about Sir Sam at computer lab?
In fairness to you, Les,
that's your best joke.
Hello?
What can Sam and I talk about?
Storage capacity of flash drives?
And what will we bond over?
Trouble-shooting computer issues?
Yeah! Awesome, right!
You're made for each other.
Uy! Sir Sam!
Mom asked if I was ever going to get married.
If this was an exam,
my time was already up.
I told her, "No chance, Mom. I failed."
Wait a minute.
Didn't you tell me before,
by the time you reach 40,
you'll give up.
I'm not 40 yet, Les.
Wow.
Mom asked about my relationship with you.
Huh? What?
It's...
Former student.
Friend.
Come on, Les.
Don't play dumb.
I could always count on you
to raise your hand in class.
Do we have to play Charades for this?
Ma'am Debs.
Look...
Candles...
Red wine.
I won this at the Christmas party raffle.
Plastic cups? Really?
Isn't it romantic, Les?
Oh no!
Oh yes!
Don't tell me.
I will.
This can't be.
Don't speak in English.
You're not a celebrity.
Debs.
No.
So, I'm mistaken?
Every time you part my hair
when it reaches your face, what was that?
It's messy so it needs to be fixed!
What about those movie dates?
When you don't remove your arms
when it touches my boobs?
But that’s normal!
The cinema’s cramped.
Our bodies are bound to touch.
Ma'am Debs.
Think of the thousands of bodies
accidentally groped at the train everyday.
One woman chimed she'd be pregnant
by the time she got off.
What about the texts
we exchange everyday?
The constant calls?
Me telling you my problems?
You telling me yours?
- That's nothing?
- Ma'am Debs.
Friends do that for each other.
Mom asked if you were my boyfriend.
I don't want it to come from me.
But I told her, every time
you picked up test papers for checking,
I always felt excited.
Like you wanted to spare me
from getting callused from checking papers.
I feel--
But I've been checking papers for you
since I was your student!
But you're not my student anymore!
Ma'am Debs.
You're an important part of my life.
Ma'am Debbie!
Remember the time
when I felt so small
every time I entered the classroom,
you always boosted my confidence.
When you became
my psychology professor,
I was so inspired.
I realized studying was worthwhile.
To be honest, Ma'am Debs,
you bring out the best in me.
- But what you're telling me is--
- Is it because I'm fat?
I didn't say that.
You know we go for places
that serve unlimited rice.
I already ordered slimming tea
from Ms. Bañares.
I'll be sexy in one month.
You don't have to do that.
And those slimming teas aren't safe!
Okay. Alright. Uh...
I've signed up for zumba classes.
If you want, I'll also do yoga.
Go ahead.
Do it for your health.
Is it because of our age gap?
It's not that obvious.
We both like the same food.
We laugh at the same jokes.
We accept each other's quirks.
Ma'am Debs.
Ma'am Debs, please!
Les, can't you really see?
You really don't feel anything?
All the things I've learned
from all sorts of teaching strategies,
I've poured them all here!
Sorry.
All this time,
I was just imagining things.
Even if we've been like this for so long,
I'm still just Ma'am Debs.
Your personality development coach,
teacher, mentor, what else?
Trisha and I are together.
What?
Trisha's my girlfriend.
Trisha. Trisha Catacutan.
Yes, I know her!
You were both in my class.
Why, Lester?
What do you mean why?
I'm a guy. She's a girl.
And I'm what?
A girl, too.
A female teacher.
Whenever I read her name
during roll call before,
you always bowed your head
as if she smelled unbearable.
It turns out I shouldn't be afraid of her.
And she smells nice.
And I remember you said,
it turned you off that she barely passed
such easy exams!
I can always teach her.
And she's improved, you know.
Actually, she helped me
check your papers.
You let her check it?
Yes. So?
I'm going to recheck it!
I'm sure she made lots of mistakes.
That's mean, Ma'am Debs.
How long have you been together?
One month tomorrow.
Ma'am Debs.
Ma'am Debs, sorry.
It's unfair, Les.
You didn't even tell me.
If I didn't tell you what I felt tonight,
I might've learned about it from someone else.
I thought we were allies.
I thought we could be
honest with each other.
You didn't even tell me.
I was going to tell you.
And...
See, look at your reaction.
Okay, Les.
You said you had to leave first.
Ma'am Debs.
Will you be okay?
Dumbass.
As if you don't know me!
I'll be fine.
With these looks?
And this outfit?
Ma'am Debs. Sorry.
Hey, you've got a girlfriend!
Just go.
Go!
Happy one-month!
Best wishes!
Sweet dreams!
J.A.P.A.N.!
Just Always Pray At Night!
I.T.A.L.Y.!
I Trust And Love You!
K.A.Z.A.K.H.S.T.A.N.!
Shit, nevermind.
C'mon...don't be that way.
Go! Before you change your mind.
Hello?
Isn't the pizza ready yet?
I called hours ago.
I already lost my appetite!
Just cancel my order, miss.
Of course, I am overjoyed for Lester.
Lester regularly buys siomai rice here.
He's very hardworking, just a bit shy.
Lots of girls like him
but he always rejects them.
Good thing he's settled down.
It took a while, bro.
I had to squeeze the story out of him.
He said it all started in the lab.
That's what he said.
I said, "Really now?"
Actually, it's like this...
Trisha broke a test tube.
She was in tears.
Lester here came to her rescue.
Maybe it was destiny.
'Cause I know...
Lester was often seen
with someone else before.
Actually, we were classmates since freshman year.
At first, I didn't think I'd like him.
He was somewhat of a nerd at first.
And he'd always be with his teacher.
What's her name again?
The psych prof...
Ah! Ms. Debbie!
Ma'am Debs!
Yeah, her.
The Second Night
Excuse me.
Is Cherry Pie Picache around?
I mean, Adele?
Lester.
I was just trying my luck
that you might be here.
I was told you always
go home early, Ma'am Debs.
No, I just have a lot of work.
Ma'am Debs, you won't get married that way!
What's up? What brings you here?
Maybe you don't want to see me.
I need a recommendation letter.
For what?
For work.
At a call center.
I took the offer,
while my application
at the hospital is still pending.
So I can also...
save money for training.
In fact,
the pay's actually bigger there.
I can even practice my English.
You know what I mean, don't you?
Ma'am Debs!
I thought you said
the school had a Scantron?
There is one, but it's unreliable.
Firstly, the circle must be fully shaded
so the machine can read it.
But an issue came up.
Sam had been showing
the answer key to his student friends.
Until one day, the machine broke down.
When it was investigated,
turns out the machine
was second-hand.
So that's why!
I heard downstairs
that Sir Bau wasn't here anymore.
Mhm.
A lot of cases were filed against him.
Ma'am Debs!
I bumped into Sir Palubs at the gate.
Did you greet him?
It's the sucker's birthday today.
No...
But that's okay.
He never remembers my name either.
You still can't get over that?
It's just Lester.
I would understand
if my name was Nebuchadnezzar.
That's the point.
It's so simple that's why it's forgettable.
You know, I still remember,
one time, we rode the jeep together.
I paid for his fare.
I said, "Sir, this one's on me."
We chatted the whole time.
He wanted to gossip about my classmates.
About who was dating the girl
with the big boobs at the front row.
About that activist-classmate
who refuses to have a haircut.
Anyway, we talked about many things.
And then he asked,
"So where are you getting off, Leslie?"
At least he got the first syllable right.
Point taken.
Ma'am Debs, what about Ma'am Alma?
Is she still around?
Virginia Ajero?
You got it.
The teacher who had a collection
of Alma Moreno jokes.
Whenever she sensed the class was bored,
she'd blurt out an Alma Moreno joke.
My favorite was when Alma Moreno
went to McDonald's to order a Big Mac.
Of course, the crew asked her,
"Ma'am, is this for dine-in or for take out?"
Alma got irritated and said,
"No! It's for my son, Vandolph!"
She told those jokes
even in the faculty room.
One time, Alma was with her BFF at Mcdonald's,
but Alma was the only one
who ordered a Big Mac.
Naturally, Alma felt self-conscious,
so she offered her friend a bite.
Her friend said, "Thanks, I'm a vegetarian."
Alma was amazed and replied,
"Oh, I'm a Capricorn!"
Anyway, Ma'am Alma's no longer
affiliated with the school.
She said there was no
career growth in this school.
All for the best.
So other students could hear
her Alma Moreno jokes.
Ma'am Debs, what about...
Ma'am Filipino? Is she still here?
Jelly Vinta.
Yes, her.
I had fun in her class.
Really?
Wasn't she boring?
All she ever did was read.
Books are her best friends.
No.
I found her amusing 'cause she spoke
as if she were reciting a poem.
One afternoon,
she walked into the classroom...
"Class, have you ever stared
at the sky just before a rainfall?"
"Don't you think
it looks like a bruised cheek?"
How witty!
You know, one time,
We also discussed
"Veneration Without Understanding" by Constantino.
Ma’am Vinta said, "Class,"
"If we were to think about
Constantino’s reasoning,"
"Rizal is not the essence of the revolution."
"Rizal was only a button,
not the entire polo shirt."
I always wrote her quotable quotes
in my notebook.
I remember, you lost that notebook
and refused to go home until we found it.
You must have been afraid
someone would discover your weirdness.
Alright!
Bur of course, no one can beat
my Psychology professor.
The twin sister of Adele?
She was the best! Awesome!
Stop it, Lester Quizon.
Wow, you had to say my full name?
At least not Leslie.
Ma'am Debs, don't you notice anything?
Nothing in particular.
Really?
Oh! You look different.
I look handsome, right?
Where's the audition?
Are you playing "extra" somewhere?
It's getting late. Aren't you going home?
Just a moment.
Why did you really come here?
Is this the answer key?
You know what, Ma'am Debs,
I missed so many things.
The cafeteria food
that tastes like meals for patients.
Sitting in the corridor
while waiting for the next class,
not minding if I get
my white uniform dirty.
The smell of the wet market
as I pass by on my way to and from school.
- I miss...
- How are you, Les?
What do you mean?
You tell me.
Amazing, Ma'am Debs.
The paper I'm checking has no mistakes.
I noticed you've been talkative.
I know when you're usually like that.
I'm okay, Ma'am Debs. I'm happy.
Good.
I'll go ahead, Les.
You can still hang around if you want to.
Huh?
It hasn't been easy.
Trisha and I have a kid.
He's turning two.
That's great.
You must be happy.
Look at me, I've grown old
taking care of my nephews and nieces.
It's really wonderful.
Especially it's your own child.
Yes, it's been fun.
He’s already become talkative
even if he can’t say the words right.
No problem then.
But, Trish is...
What about Trish?
We're not happy.
We're not the type to throw plates
at each other when we fight.
If anything, I can count with one hand
the times we raised our voices at each other.
But you know,
I know, we’re not happy.
Give it time, Les.
Maybe you're still adjusting to each other.
I don’t know, Ma’am Debs.
You know, it's like...
When we're at the mall,
we look at different things.
That's natural.
You’re a guy. She’s a girl.
You should be worried
if you like the same things.
That's not it.
You know me.
I prefer simple and affordable things.
Her tastes are so expensive.
This polo shirt...
She forced me to buy this
so I'd look fashionable.
Then again you said
you look handsome in that shirt.
According to you.
Whenever we watch rom-coms,
I’d be excited over a scene,
while she'd stare at it blankly.
'Cause when you get excited,
it doesn’t show.
And when she’d bring me to her art films,
just 10 minutes and I'm knocked out.
It's so boring
even with an energy drink.
- You have so many complaints, Les.
- That's not all.
When it comes to food,
you know I want unlimited rice.
She prefers salads.
Shit.
Salad?
She must be the vegetarian friend
in Ma’am Ajero's Alma Moreno jokes.
How about this, Les,
go back to the reasons why you liked her.
You told me before,
"I shouldn't be afraid of her
even if 'Catacutan' was her surname."
and you also said that
you were willing to be with her
even if you didn't have the same wavelength.
I don't know, Ma'am Debs.
Sometimes,
she caught me lost in thought
and asked me if I had a problem.
She said, "Les, is there a problem?"
What did you tell her?
Nothing.
What could I say?
How could I answer? or explain?
It's like there's...
there’s this pain in your body but,
but you can’t pinpoint where,
you can't even describe it?
It’s not just because of our differences,
when we go out, watch movies or eat out.
Those are superficial things.
I don’t know what to say, Les.
You know, Ma'am Debs,
I missed so many things…
I missed this.
Our conversations.
When we talked,
we would laugh or get shocked
or get mad at the same things.
That even if we repeat
the same joke or story,
we still don't get tired of it.
I'm so touched.
I hate you, Boy.
You know, Ma'am Debs?
When I needed a recommendation letter for work,
I immediately thought of you.
But I also hesitated.
'Cause what would you say?
"To whom it may concern,"
"I met Lester Quizon
when he was an anti-social freshman"
"I approached and befriended him."
"Slowly, I taught him how
to believe in himself and his potential."
"Lester Quizon is very helpful."
"He helped me check papers."
"He’s even better
than the Scantron machine."
"But,"
"But it seems like"
"he's just good at checking papers."
"Because in other things,"
"he's just like a second-hand Scantron,"
"The answer's already there,
but he still couldn't read it and left."
"He left her hanging."
Let’s not open old wounds, Les.
Two years have passed.
I got pressured, Ma’am Debs.
Stop it!
I knew all along. I felt it, too.
But I avoided it like a student
scared of the exam even if I knew the answers.
- I said, stop!
- I got scared, Ma'am Debs.
That’s why I shifted my attention
to Trisha, to her beauty.
I gave in to superficiality.
- I told myself that my classmates would be impressed...
- Is this what you went here for?
- I thought that if we got married...
- I'll call the guard!
-  I would forget…
- Lester!
- I love you!
I love you.
Sorry.
There you go again.
Saying sorry.
For once in your life, Les,
make a stand!
I’m already fine!
Would you believe that?
Yes, I was angry. At you, at myself.
I was mad at why I was fat,
why I was single at 38.
I was mad at why I was your teacher
and you were my student,
and that of all the places in the world,
we met in this school.
But that night and other nights have passed.
I have no regrets.
I have no regrets about what I did
and what happened.
Even if we didn’t end up together,
it was enough that I told you —
I love you, Ma'am Debs.
I love you, Debbie.
I have to go.
I’m getting married, Les.
In a month.
I wasn’t counting on it.
After all, I’m already 40.
But then,
he came along.
I'm just not able to ask him
to check papers.
Bye.